Okay,
we're live. Hello.
I said I'd be back.
Dinner took longer than expected.
But I am in fact here.
Cool.
So I realized something with this uh
this kernel that is going to be a
problem.
Uh
yeah, the thing that's going to be a
problem with this is isn't this going to
output like specific shape kernel?
Let's go look.
We just do
obsit.
Hello off market. Welcome.
Okay.
Want this and we want debug.
What the hell?
Oh, I did the wrong one. Hang on.
All right. So,
we just do
Tiny model obsize.
Exit.
We wrote four graphs.
So this is element wise and a reduction
I believe.
Thank you. oxidative.
It's a nice space.
Uh
yeah. So, let's go look at this kernel.
Now, this is the thing I'm not sure
about, right? Because this is going to
give us
this has all the shapes in here, right?
You see?
Got to realize
schedule u
uh this is not what we want. View
program.
I think this is it.
Hey Spencer,
I am busy breaking my head. How's it
going?
Working on project AI driven in space
situational
collision risk detection. Cool.
Yo, what the heck is this? Oh, did it
just unroll?
Uh
yeah, this kind of just unrolled
everything.
Right.
So I guess we look at does Tiny Brad
have the ability to generate us kernels
that are not
shape dependent um or like are not hard
coding the shape
number of beams in kernel beam Search
load 6.
So do I have to do this without beam or
what do I do?
What happens if I do
What happens if I do it this way? Do I
get something different?
Well, now you get three kernels
reduction, but these are still um
Yeah. So, here you actually This is not
full unrolled anymore, right?
Or is it was I looking at this one?
No, it's still like this.
And this gives us
Yeah.
Okay. So, um
I mean you see the issue here, right? It
is generating good kernels,
but it's generating like specialized to
a specific shape.
So that is a problem, right?
Because we'd basically
we would have to include tiny grad in
It would have to go into puffer, I
think, and then it would have to like
the install or whatever would have to
actually benchmark or would have to run
tiny to generate your kernels.
Yeah, that's an issue.
like instead of using unroll or
something, it just manually unrolled it.
So, it wrote like this very non-readable
kernel and also like
there's no way I can adjust this and
just use it.
index reduce add mole add square. Yeah.
So this is this is your like little
computation graph for an RMS norm. So
this thing is cool, right?
But then it generates a kernel
that I don't see how I can use
which is an issue. So
doc describing speed
compile speed.
Fast graph rewrite. Yeah. Okay.
Tiny jet.
Best execution speed of any framework as
it usually bypasses the GPU driver.
Rebuilds the command Q.
So then why where is the overhead then?
Why is this not just faster?
You still want to use China grid? I'm
looking, man. That's what I'm assessing
right now.
Often even faster than CUDA
H.
Model speed
determines how operations are grouped
into kernels and which tensors are
written to memory.
Internal speed determines how fast the
operation is done. Yeah. Beam changes
opts that control the parameters of
speed operation
applied to kernel.
Hello, welcome.
So, I mean this is the first legitimate
question.
Uh where is this?
I had a dock somewhere, didn't I?
Where did I write this? Ah, here we go.
Gen
fixed to
Well, that's obvious.
And like yes, I'm obviously aware that
it's going to be faster if you tune
everything everything, but like
basically I'm thinking if you tune the
block size for smaller nets for instance
and then you still ship it like
Main bottleneck in most colonels is
accessing memory.
terabyte of RAM bandwidth.
Oops.
You use each loaded value 100 times.
They're using it in production. So
should have a reason why they migrated.
They are. Who is they?
Like there are a lot of good things
here, but then there's some things
missing basically is what I'm seeing so
far.
This is a reference.
Well, because it's own thing and it got
good enough that they could have like
Yeah.
blinding white page, but
see um
not compiling kernel code.
launch dimensions buffer sizes
using
4x4 matrix element wise. says addition
might render this CUDA code
1 +
huh.
Oh, I see.
So I guess then yeah the question is can
we get this to generate generic kernels
because otherwise right like we would
have to ship t we'd either have to ship
every possible op size which isn't
realistic
Or
yeah, that's pretty much it. Or we'd
have to bundle tiny with it, which is
not what I want.
Yeah, PyTorch is easy. Like TensorFlow
is [__] library. Yes.
Um,
buffer.
the same price.
All right, these
Okay, this is niche.
We have this
This
is quite nice. Okay. Yeah, we do this
type of stuff. It's fine.
Yeah. Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
That's fine.
So,
where does this leave us?
It's like it's outputting
I guess I didn't expect it to output a
shape specific kernel, right? Like a
hard-coded kernel for the shape.
like you can really only use that for um
inference if you have like one specific
architecture.
Let's check another thing
here. Let's go check um because we had
the other now that we have a little bit
more knowledge here
we can do test grad
test.
Okay. So for test tiny
we get
context beam two.
Now we get
faster than torch
faster than torch eager at least and
torch compile is a pain in the ass.
I can do like this, right?
And it'll take a while
and it'll just completely mess up
is like good job torch.
If I do max auto tune,
it's still worse.
What about reduce overhead?
Yeah, surprisingly still worse, right?
Can try getting rid of full graph.
Yeah, but it's slower.
So,
compile kind of sucks.
And actually, Tiny is faster on this
benchmark
by a little bit.
Let's
do Whoops.
X
So,
uh, this is pretty consistent with what
I've seen for a long time.
Oh, but hang on. You know what I think
we're doing wrong here?
Ah, we're doing one thing wrong.
This will this will potentially change
it quite a bit.
I for I totally forgot this.
Hi.
Torch. What is it? Torch.
Allow.
Does this not help?
Interesting.
Yeah. So, interestingly enough,
this does not help at all.
Oh, hang on. This doesn't have a bias.
list object.
has no
attribute requires grad.
Where is there an API?
Come here.
Come on.
In out bias.
What did I do wrong here? Oh, because
this is the wrong
thing.
Cool.
So now, of course, this has to retune
the beams.
Yeah, I had uh extra list. My bad.
Yeah, it's probably a list. Yeah,
there's the uh the delay on X.
All right, 19 mil.
So, that takes a little bite out of PF
is very funny,
but still just a little bit faster than
torch on this. Uh let's make this as
minimal as possible because I think my
goal is going to be to have like a few
clean examples we can use uh for demos.
So we have
this
warm up
flops
torch
cool. So
relu
this
I don't need flatten of one either
redundant.
Now we have the equivalent in torch.
It's funny that torched actually doesn't
get any faster from um
from this at all. So, I do wonder what
precision tiny is going to use.
The docks are lacking for sure.
New to Python, two hours a day. What are
you doing here?
Oh, you have stumbled into the deep end
here. Um,
I am a reinforcement learning researcher
and I stream all of my dev. What I'm
doing at the moment is I'm looking at uh
tiny grads performance
for small networks versus torches and
then if it beats torches versus my own
custom
uh GPU operations that I have and we're
going to see if this thing is any faster
and if there are any ideas that I can
use generally in the rest of what I work
on.
Yes, welcome to the matrix.
That's a good way of putting it.
There are tons of educational resources
around here though. I do make uh some
content for more beginners.
Does this thing have docks over like
import global counters. So global
counters will do the same op as I have
um it'll do this for me, right? This
flop count. What do like where do I get
if I wanted to do BF-16 or TF-32? Like
where do I do this?
Does this have BF16 anywhere?
Not really.
Do we have DT type?
We have B float 16.
Why is there no T float?
Why is there no TF32 here?
Oh, also did that not even index
correctly?
No, it did index.
Yeah. Why is there no tensor float?
Reading the code in examples is easier
than the docs.
I mean that's kind of acceptable.
Examples are good but in this case like
there is some level of API rep. I would
expect stuff like this is good. I'd like
to have this for like everything.
Then the example should at least be
linked. Let me add that to my notes.
I tab.
So if I search this one for Tflat 32.
Nope. I used the wrong search bar. Hang
on.
Allow TF32.
Oh, this is on by default. I see.
MVARS MD.
Why is MVARS MD better than the Envar's?
Am I stupid?
Hang on. Let me just make sure this
isn't me being stupid.
Cuz if it is on the docks like so
bright, fair play.
Um, environment variables.
Okay, I'm dumb. This is literally
directly served from the same page.
Cool. This one is me being stupid 100%.
But like I wouldn't expect to look for
it in Envir. First
look.
Wow.
Things are not where you would expect
them to be.
Is this Wait, is this on by default?
Same speed, right?
Apparently it is.
Get rid of this
means the bias is true
which would be default
linear relu Cool.
All right. So, Tiny Grad wins a little
bit on speed here.
Now, mind you, the one thing that's a
little annoying is so Torch is supposed
to have all this compile stuff. Um, it's
not actually faster a lot of the time,
especially for these small models, but
just look at this. If you don't compile
Tiny,
I just want to show you this. So, if you
do not run Tiny with compile,
you take a 3x speed head.
See you, Tom. No idea what's going on.
Fun to watch. Cool. Thanks for dropping
by. I have guides on my ex.
Okay, so now that we have a decent
number of people here for the evening,
does anybody have any requests or things
on this example
uh before I move on? Like have I done do
we all agree that I've done pretty much
as much as is as is reasonable for a
basic linear net to compare torch and
tiny grab
for this like this one example. We're
going to do a couple more examples of
course.
Looks like you're using their JIT. Yeah,
I'm using their JIT and I'm using their
beam search as well. Is this supposed to
be two or am I supposed to do more than
this?
Well, I figure we might have a couple
Tiny Grad people on by now. Who knows? I
said I'd be working on it.
We had some before.
I don't remember how big to make beam.
Is there still other searches? I do not
know.
I also don't know what this is doing
other than taking forever.
Number of beams in kernel beam search.
Apparently, there are docs over like
what it searches over. There are
settings where you can control
uh like specifically
what it does.
More options and increase compilation
time. Well, I just ran it with eight, so
let's see what that does. I have no idea
what these are set to. I figured this
would be a constant, right?
Number of beams in kernel search. Yeah.
Oh.
Uh, okay. Tiny grad. The hell.
That's kind of interesting.
Look at that. It found better kernels.
That's pretty cool.
That's pretty cool. Yeah, we have viz.
Um
Huh.
How is it? 27 mil. That's after the
kernel search.
I need jet.
No beam on quick start.
Pulls your first program. Slow AF.
2.3x torch. Yeah,
it does seem like their JIT actually
works. Torches compile does not [__]
work. It does seem like their JIT does
actually work. So that's nice.
Has potential to further speed up
puffer. There's a lot of stuff I like,
but there's a lot of stuff that's
missing or not the way that I would want
it to be.
You can write them in your raw u ops
yourself.
That doesn't that's not what you would
do, dude. You would do you just write
your own kernels at that point. The UOPs
are not like easily human writable or
readable at all.
Like you want to see what their kernel
gen outputs
here.
Let me let me show you what their kernel
gen outputs.
Uh let's just do
viz.
Yeah.
All right. So, their kernel gen output
stuff like this
and then you'll go like look at it
and it's this.
So,
they kind of just manually unroll a
bunch of stuff. And um if you look here,
where is it?
Yeah. So they do
they do like they hardcode the shapes
into everything as well.
Probably busy. Yeah, he's at Nurips. He
like said he sent out this party thing.
I'm not going to nurse though.
think you'll still get fusion.
But like why would I write it out? Like
at that point, dude, I'm going to write
out a CUDA kernel like here. So the the
point of this, right, is that this
generates us decent kernels. Like I can
also just write kernels
here. So this is like I spent two days
on this kernel, right? Not the RMS norm.
That shit's broken. That's actually one
of the things that motivated me to look
at this. Um but okay, like here's a
mining inference kernel. This is actual
human readable code and each of these
are just like tiny little elementwise
functions, right? And then like I've got
log coiths and values. Here's one.
Here's the backward pass. Really the
obnoxious thing about kernels is getting
the backward passes to be correct. And
then like here's a more complex one.
This is the fuse scan operation. This
little piece of code took me a couple
days and here's the backward pass for
it. It's like pretty small function.
Very very fiddly to get this correct.
But like the point is this is actually
readable and usable output. I can edit
this and try to like optimize this. This
I can't do [__] with. And like on top of
that, if at least this were if this
could generate me kernels that would
like be size independent, like maybe
this takes block size as a parameter or
something and it just finds me the
optimal default block sizes, I could do
that. Um, if this had like unroll in
here, you know, instead of hard coding
it,
but this is like very clearly not meant
to be human editable or reusable or
whatever.
throw it through beam, right? So, beam
is going to search over these kernels,
right? But like the point is
it shouldn't have to manually unroll
loops like this to get this level of PF,
right? Like it should be able like this
could be this could take a shape arg
with an unroll in it and then it would
work like maybe it would be optimal for
this shape but the kernel would still
work for different shapes and would
still be pretty good for like you know
if you double the size it would probably
still be pretty good right
so like the thing I wanted to do with
tiny was to use them to generate kernels
right and then you know as I generate
more kernels then maybe it makes sense
to have a tiny grad back end and like
you know a lower level back end.
But this makes it very difficult.
That said, we're going to keep looking
at the beam performance cuz we did just
get a very good result out of it.
All right. Like actually this one is a
good one. Right.
So this is
I actually I don't want to test this
with um
I don't want to test this with
I don't want to test this with the
optimizer in the mix.
I like to test it like this. Right.
Okay. So,
yeah. 115 million samples per second out
of torch.
Do we compile this just to be sure?
We'll let it attempt to max autotune.
The hell
with
no grad.
Oh no, we do need grad on this though.
But optimizer zeros the freaking
gradient.
Actually, this is an LLM question
like stupid
and torch.
There is something to backwards through.
Fire grad.
That seems [__]
Uh, detach. That seems [__] to me.
It's supposed to reuse these buffers,
isn't it?
I doubt that, but we'll try this.
Stupid. See, this is like I hate torch
compile so much.
It's such a buggy piece of [__]
You know what?
Does it work with default?
Okay, there it goes. Look at that. You
compile it with default and it gets way
slower. Buggy piece of [__]
[__] torch compile.
Yeah.
All right, let's try this one.
Tiny jet.
train
in backward.
Oh,
wait. Did I do this wrong? I think I
did.
No tensor core available.
Why no tensor core available?
Yeah, torch compile just sucks.
It's It's not your imagination. It's
just bad.
No tensor core. Yeah, that's weird.
All right, let's see this. So, the thing
is, so far I'm not perfectly happy with
Tiny Grad's error messages.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> error messages
a bit better,
but still me.
Um,
that in there.
Like, what the [__] does that mean? No
tensor core available.
There are tensor cores available.
That wasn't even running this piece of
code. That was the piece of code that I
know is correct.
Okay, so there's 106.
Okay, so that's a false alarm. Sadly,
those are actually pretty much the exact
same speed.
Now the one potential thing that we get
out of this
uh the one potential thing we get out of
this
is we can try like this with eight.
How did that search so fast?
Uh, why did it just get slower?
This might be way too big, right?
Oh, I think it's exponential.
No, it's not. Okay. 107 mil. So
yeah,
that's super inconsistent, man. Like
sometimes it finds the good kernels,
sometimes it doesn't.
No, I do not like that.
It
spines
dead.
Oh, not six. 16.
Okay, so we got this one.
search for best performance and save it.
Yeah, but like you should not be
searching like Torch's RMS norm kernel
sucks. Um,
so it shouldn't you should not be doing
that much searching to come up with
something about the same speed as torch
and then sometimes fail and be worse.
Okay, we can try Mingru, I suppose.
Well, I really just want to try this
operation right here.
I think that this is a good opt to test,
right?
cuz this is the one I have a kernel for.
We're watching Ilia. I don't think Well,
I could do that tonight. I kind of want
to finish this. What time is it? 7:30.
How long's the podcast?
Hour 30. Nah, we're going to have to do
that Monday. That's too long.
We're doing tiny grad benchmarking
tonight, Kevin.
Mostly a nothing burger. I'll be the
judge of that. Like I said, Ilia is the
one person he could get that I'd
actually watch it for.
not Carpathy
cuz Carpathy I go read his code and
stuff, man.
I follow Carpathy for his technical
stuff, not his high level takes.
Lot of commercials in that 1.5 hours.
It's called YouTube Premium.
Let's see. Is it batch key hidden size?
I believe it's like this.
Yeah, it's Horizon hidden size. Like
the podcaster commercials.
Oh,
my bad.
Well, I'm not going to skip those on the
stream either. It's very very bad form
to like rewatch something live and not
even show their sponsored stuff.
What code do you read?
This was clean RL before clean RL
blog posts and then I also read a little
bit of um I forget which one of it was
of his like lower level implementations.
I mean, he like he's very good at
something that I value very much, which
is like taking the current stupidly over
complicated thing that people are
talking about and making it very simple
without losing precision at Oh.
Oh, this
backward.
I mean, Ilia is like from when I was at
OpenAI, Ilia and Greg are two of the
people I respect the most
in tech.
Well, an AI in general, I suppose.
Admittedly,
I didn't get like I didn't really get to
see a bunch of Brockman's code, though,
I did see the type of work he would do
with the Dota team.
I mean, Brockman would literally just be
there coding with the Dota team all day.
Um,
I kind of got to see, you know, because
they were all also at lunch every day,
but I kind of got to see the way that
they led um, Open AI at what was the
really the golden age of RL when there I
think that well,
it's my firm belief that that was where
the best RL was happening thus far, like
ever. Um,
Dota is by far the best RL project, best
RL result. Uh, the Rubik's Cube was
pretty damn good as well. We were only
two years out from um the original
algorithmic breakthroughs, PO,
and
there were a few other cool projects at
the time.
There was a ton of cool stuff going on
then.
I mean, Dota alone was just so freaking
cool to say.
Oh, yeah. This doesn't have a dot
backward, does it?
Uh,
do I just have to mark this as requires
grad?
Are we back?
I think we're back.
Damn it. X.
Yeah, X stayed down. Let me try to fix
X.
Gotta love how it does that, man. Just
take all of my memory torch. Good job.
So, um, the reason that I take Open AI's
Dota result over everything else, it's a
5v5 game, not a 1v one game. So, it's
actually multi- aent. Um, Alpha Stars 1
v one.
Uh Dota is way more heavily strategic
than mechanical.
I'd say Starcraft is way more
mechanical. Uh way more mechanics
focused. Dota is like the League for old
like for old men in some sense. Um
the methods used for Dota were far far
simpler.
It really just showed like PO plus
selfplay plus a little bit of scale, but
nowhere near as much scale as you would
expect is enough to solve the game. And
it was also trained entirely with
selfplay where Alpha Star trained I
believe up to Diamond they did imitation
learning. So with all those things like
Dota is a way way better project in my
mind. It's not even close.
Go is very far up there as well, of
course, but like Go is harder to
intuitit because the type of difficulty
and the type of problem solving in there
is far less intuitive and far harder to
map onto real tasks than Dota is,
even just knowing a little bit about a
MOA,
about MOBAs in general.
So that's why
hopefully this won't take it down. I
used way lower batch sizes.
Yeah, there we go.
Yeah, it's really not even close
in my mind.
Dota is by far the best.
Okay, we forgot times horizon.
Strateggo.
Wait, is that actually Strateggo?
Oh no, man. Not even close. This
freaking game.
I didn't even know this existed.
Is nowhere even as there's like there's
no way that's as interesting at all.
It's cool that they kept doing this
stuff, but
this is a really really stupid way to
quantify complexity as well.
Like Strateggo, there's no way this is I
guess I never was good at it.
is nowhere near as complicated as go,
right? Or chess.
No. No way.
Unless somebody's going to tell me that
Strateggo is actually a super freaking
complicated game.
Huge search space is not a good reason
for a problem being hard. Okay, the
search space of Dota is way bigger. It's
[__] continuous.
It's way complicated. I used to play it
a lot.
It's a lot more like chess in the moves
in like the search space in general.
Oh, you're not even looking at as much
stuff at a time as you are look when
you're playing chess.
Actually,
you know, a really easy way to test it,
you know what's going to be kind of cool
about this? You know how we get to
quantify game complexity when puffer
gets a little bit better? We just run
puffer lib on the game and the games
that take more flops are harder. That's
it.
Yeah, it is about bluffing and stuff. I
see. Yeah, that's fair.
I have way more respect at the very
least for stuff like chess and go though
than I do for poker.
We're not going to make the same mistake
again.
We're going to do
512 by 64. This will be better.
Give
him some.
Let's
access.
Why you rename this to axis, man?
So, we're going to test this one is
going to be cool because I have a custom
kernel to test like test this against.
Okay, that's cool, right?
Very cool.
Yeah, tiny search is the best kernel.
And we should honestly, we're going to
test it with a a few different things.
I want this to be like a good evaluation
of the uh the thing.
And then let's do um
Bump this to eight.
That's what we're seeing. Cret
So, Jess, um,
chess versus Dota. No way. I take Dota.
Chess versus a lot of other things.
Agree. Search makes it a lot less
impressive to me. And all the games have
been solved with search. Yeah, this is
really annoying that it just found
the fact that it just found a worse
kernel with beam 8.
Yeah.
Okay. Okay, so it finds it can like find
all sorts of different freaking kernels.
It's super inconsistent what speed of
kernel it finds.
Chess is a very good one because chess
is a game that you can actually you can
actually appreciate a bit very quickly.
But also the ways that um the way that
chess bots work make it feel like very
unfair to you cuz like of course it can
just go check all the moves instantly,
right?
Like given a um given a good chess
engine with fast state sets, you can
probably write a ridiculously naive
chess bot that already does better than
most players.
Like literally just do two-step look
ahead. You probably already are doing
pretty well.
for this.
came up with game devs. Oh yeah.
Two.
Well, that doesn't make any bloody
sense.
I know my scan is way faster than
Portish.
Oh, I'm using Am I using the wrong one?
I used the wrong one.
Hang on.
92 mil.
That's quite good.
I thought mine was way faster than 2x
though.
Pretty sure mine was like way faster
than 2x. Let's go double check.
Yeah.
So why is it benchmarking it like this
then?
This benchmark is way higher.
I wonder if it's this. Maybe we're um
this.
Try this maybe.
No, same speed.
We don't need this then.
So, how is that possible?
SPS boosts. Not yet, man. It's not
stable at all.
I'm trying. Okay.
Yeah. I don't understand why. Um
Oh, wait. 90 is actually reasonable,
isn't it? Yeah, 90 is reasonable.
But then why is the pietorch one so
fast?
Which one is supposed to be stupid
Hello.
am I doing it in double or some
[__]
No, it's float 32.
It's a different batch size. Maybe
test log
B T + 1 H
you Okay.
It's the same thing.
So wait, why is it good in one test and
bad in the other test?
Unless the warm-up isn't sufficient,
no.
Same thing.
this in float.
Very confused.
I'm so confused as to how this is
245 mil.
That matches, right?
Which that matches,
huh?
And then 90.
So I guess then the question is not why
is it fast here but why is it fast
is this cheating somehow.
It's not using compile.
I doubt this helps. Like this makes a
difference. Well, no. This will actually
make a difference. What's this do?
I'll stop backward.
I mean, why would this?
I don't understand how
this one here.
See, this doesn't even match
cuz this is 230 mil.
And then I run this
here just to be sure.
192.
Yeah.
Super weird.
Oh, you are not synchronizing here,
dude.
Yeah, you are not synchronizing. Okay.
Well, now I'm definitely synchronizing.
Right
now I am definitely synchronizing.
I don't understand how it's so slow on
this profile and then it's like, "Oh
yeah, I'm just as fast as your custom
kernel on the other profile."
This one is like clearly my custom
kernel is way better.
Right.
Damn. Well, I hope it is
So confused.
Not this right.
Um, I don't know, man.
I do not know yet. I'll let you know
when I figure it out.
So, like what's happening here is I'm
getting some interesting profiling
results, but they're inconsistent.
So, I want to be really sure before I
draw any conclusions.
Yeah, that's exactly the same as before.
This funk thing.
If I just do this in here.
Oh, I did this in the wrong spot, dummy.
It's basically it's very difficult to
tell what's faster than anything else
because everything gives inconsistent
timings despite me I'm pretty sure not
making any of the common idiot errors.
Hate PieTorch sometimes, man.
so bad
torch.
just a neural net man.
I don't understand how the [__] this
runs.
How does this [__] run? But that
doesn't.
So dumb.
Outputs equals fuse scan
backwards.
This is so [__] dumb.
You should 100% be able to do this,
right?
which drives me nuts sometimes.
And then this doesn't have a zero grad.
Dude, I hate this so much.
Like, I should be
Welcome, man.
Okay. I don't know why the hell that
works, but whatever, man.
Um,
see
now. Why is this ungodly slow?
same freaking speed,
right?
That torch is just a piece of [__] is
all. Like
it's so annoying
sometimes.
Still better than Jacks.
Yes, I read the section about speed. It
doesn't tell you much of anything.
How the heck is this one slow?
I'm not going that crazy. Right
to start.
Just need more warm up.
Oh, wait. How did that disc get in here?
This is fine.
It's still
okay. This is doing some magic [__]
somehow.
Warm up. Think
lost backward. Sink
steps.
Oh, wait. You dummy.
See?
No, that's fine.
So confused.
Profile tests are just made to [__] with
you. I swear.
The thing where it's like always
inconsistent no matter how careful you
are.
always.
You have the literal same copy pasteed
code. One is fast, one is slow.
What the [__]
Oh, wait. You idiot.
Yeah, you idiot.
Okay, don't be a [__] idiot.
Take two.
Still slow,
huh?
Now I'm confused.
Low 32 on CUDA.
I know what lazy evaluation is.
You should still be able to write a
profile check, copy paste the code, and
get the same result.
That seems very odd to me.
Okay.
I mean, this is just like
very stupid, frankly.
Okay, good. It's not like an order
thing.
Use can loss.
Oh, it's loss.
Why is this in float 64?
Hold up.
But that should make it even
that doesn't make sense.
Well, now we just mismatch even worse,
don't we?
That's interesting.
That explains it.
Interesting though.
No, that doesn't make it up.
This still bothers the [__] out of me,
right? Like,
okay. So, cuz like if I don't do this,
right? If I just do like this,
what do we get?
Okay. So, this matches here, right? Then
if I do the backwards,
suddenly it doesn't match at all.
Why not?
Clone
detach
wires grad.
What the [__]
So, how's that change anything?
that consistent.
That's so painful. What's wrong here,
man?
Like
that's like so [__] that that changes
the perf by that much.
That doubles perf apparently.
Explain to me how that makes any sense.
How does that make any sense?
Oh, yeah. Just half the speed. Yeah.
Is it just like the warm-up? I'm so
confused. It's eager mode.
It's not the warm up.
Excuse me.
If you mark it requires grad.
Oh, that's so obnoxious. It goes to the
CPU.
[__] dude.
That's so stupid though.
That's like so stupid.
Oh man, I hate torch.
Why would you ever want that?
How do you code without AI?
At least I'm not going to like How do
you think without AI, dude?
Like if you're running out of ideas
without AI, then AI has taken something
very very important from you.
Okay.
The worst bug ever.
What? How? What is even the excuse for
that?
Like what the [__] is the excuse for
that ever?
I could see it even like
What? I don't even know what that does.
Like, what the [__]
Move gradients back to CPU, I guess.
the ass.
Such a pain in the ass.
All right,
going to try this.
Okay. Way more reasonable right
now.
Puffer scam.
Now this one makes sense.
And I think Tiny Grat actually did well
on this one, right?
very well. If it's um
is it cheating?
Well, we have to make sure it's not
cheating.
How do you sync cuda and tiny gradient?
This kid.
Okay.
Uh, how do we sync
sync?
Is this made up
or is this [__] Let's see.
Lovely. Doesn't exist. Good job, Google.
[__] you. Um
synchronize all pending operations. That
looks good.
Uh where is
filed class?
What method is this?
compiled.
How do I synchronize freaking
How do you force synchronization?
Note that we aren't syncing.
GPU time may be slower.
Huh?
You can time a step with this,
but we're not syncing the GPU.
So, how do you know that the freaking
stream is done?
cuz that's a good kernel speed, but I
don't know if it's
Can I do realize on it?
Let's get rid of this. This is garbage.
Doesn't exist.
LMS are stupid.
Uh,
well, this has realize on it now and
it's the same speed.
So that's actually ridiculous. Then
if this is faster than my damn kernel
just get
65.
And now it's slower.
I mean, they said try beam equals two.
Why would it get slower with larger beam
argu?
Yeah. And now it's
now it's like way slower. Am I
misunderstanding what this ARG does?
I I'm using the defaults, dude.
Beam equals 4.
If this comes from an LLM and is stupid,
I swear to [__] man.
Well, it's like
it's slower than beam equals three
and then you get with beam equals 2.
It's weird. Um, notably though, these
are all actually faster than the kernel
that I wrote, which I spent like three
days writing
though. It is fixing it. It is
essentially doing the max autotune. So,
it's not producing a general kernel.
And then when you go to compile the
entire thing, it's actually slow again,
which is weird.
I mean, this is like enough that it's
worth um doing more though, for sure.
Well, first of all, this is a freaking
sequence model. So, what are you doing?
Oh, this is my Hang on. This is just the
forward pass
nonsequential, right?
Yeah. So, you didn't do the full speed
of this.
So, really what we should have
And I realize This
Let me actually go check the tiny
Discord.
Why can I not um
Why is this all locked?
Oh, wait. Maybe I can talk in here.
See if we get any replies in there.
Maybe you're not supposed to compile
this um this entire thing, huh?
That might be too large of a segment to
compile.
I'm going to see if it I'm going to give
it a minute to see.
Uh this for reference is what happens
with um Torch and Jax is that like you
get something that looks like this and
then the compile times just become [__]
So, I'm going to preemptively
and yeah, that's unacceptable [__]
compile time.
Args mismatch in jet.
I don't
have I
Huh?
What I do, man?
These [__] errors are just not
helpful.
Is it the realize on this?
No.
I do it without the jet.
How about that?
Sorry.
That's not the same thing apparently.
so slow, man.
Args mismatch in What does that mean?
What the [__] does that mean?
So confusing.
What do you even do when you get
[__] like this?
It runs normally. It doesn't run with
the jet.
What the [__]
in args
if printed.
Which args? You don't print the args?
They're not even realized because
everything's freaking lazy.
Like you can literally hear if I just
delete the tiny jet.
If I just do this, right? Look.
Remove this breakpoint. Okay. So look,
now it trains or it runs. Look at that.
It runs just fine
with no jet.
Then you turn on the jet.
and it breaks
third iteration. This is apparently when
it starts to actually compile
or use the jitted graph.
Same shape, same everything.
Wait, it literally printed thing not
equal.
Did I miss something?
Device.
Oh, are they on different devices?
How's that make any sense?
Envy
same device.
Oh, it doesn't have a device.
But the default is CUDA.
Args past stay unchanged. They should be
unchanged.
Where do I modify anything in place?
ST bars DT type device. Yeah, I don't
know what that means though.
This is first element. This is
overwriting. So this doesn't this is not
changing the arg
right.
You'd have to have an in place op
somewhere I guess.
So like where
Still zero.
Blame YouTube and reream chat delay.
Annoying.
Know what the hell this would be.
Crazy. Like every single jet ever is
just a pain in the ass. I swear.
I've yet to find a jet that doesn't make
me want to put my fist through the
monitor.
B const where shape changes.
Oh, I see. This is a giant not equals
block.
Why is there uopsreshape first and then
shrink?
Shrink reshape
the same shape.
This
31 128.
But this is
it's passing a slice of the tensor to
compile.
I mean, what does it want me to compile
this entire [__] loop?
Like, then it's just going to take
forever, right?
Like I can technically I can do this,
right?
Too many indices.
Didn't jit anything.
So this is going to need model logits
values.
And now it's going to take for [__]
ever.
I guess it's not that terrible, but like
h
like this is too much to jet.
That's really [__] that they don't
support that. Are you kidding me?
It's not dynamic. Literally, none of
this is dynamic. That's the crazy [__]
I'm like, this is already optimized to
not even be remotely difficult to
handle.
Like this is me porting little chunks of
like a third generation at least
realistically much more than that
system.
I mean, I guess arguably there is
technically a way for me to make this
buffer contiguous. There's not a good
way for me to do it, though.
That is kind of interesting.
Massaging is needed.
Well, now congratulations. You've
learned why I [__] hate jets.
make a jet. You know how to massage.
Okay. And even if you do it correctly,
then you get to wait for a stupid JIT to
compile.
This is going to make a gigantic graph,
right? You see this is going to make a
gigantic graph, right?
This is calling an entire network
inside this blob.
I wonder if this is a jet requirement or
a tiny god requirement actually.
Tiny red straight up not have contiguous
sets.
Oh well that's [__]
Dude, you guys don't have proper
slicing.
I mean
then it'll Yeah.
And we can both see that that's
incredibly stupid, right?
I mean, honestly, Tiny is pretty damn
good so far. I like it's missing enough
stuff that there's no way in hell I
would just port this to T torch and say,
"Yeah, everybody's got to use I mean,
port from Torch and say everybody's got
to use Tiny for now." It's like it does
a bunch of things that PieTorch doesn't
that I'd like, but it's also missing a
bunch of [__] that I would want as well.
Like the low-level control is really not
very good
because it generates it generates you
kernels, sure, but it generates you like
size specific kernels.
As far as I can tell, there's no way to
get it to generate you like a generic
kernel with a specific block size that
you can apply to whatever sized input.
What about the RMS norm thing?
What was the result of the RMS norm?
Try this.
somehow that gives you the magic number,
but this is to match Torch eager mode.
The one that like is really ridiculous
is the kernel is the fused kernel,
right?
I mean, we've got we've got two things
that are kind of ridiculous.
Okay. And what the [__] is this? No
kernel available.
[__] is this?
Oh, that's bizarre.
I torch scan.
But like
I hate the idea of introducing all these
complicated ass constructs just to avoid
writing anything but Python.
Like I'd rather just not write my
networks in Python than deal with this
[__]
Okay. I mean, if you're using the
default settings,
Yeah, this is the only one that's like
ridiculous.
How the [__] is this faster than my
kernel?
How fast is this thing without the dot
backwards?
Oh, interesting. So actually their
backward function is faster than mine
but um my forward is faster than theirs.
Huh?
How the hell is my backward function
slow?
I guess I didn't get rid of this one
conditional, but like
did I forget an X or something?
E
XF XF.
No, I don't have anything weird in here.
Do they have some better X function or
something?
Actually
kind of weird that my backward is that
much slower in the first place, isn't
it?
How many X do we have?
X F
two X here.
Oh, do I have an extra X?
Huh?
I don't know.
That's weird either way.
I guess it could also be overhead from
um this whole thing is bound to torch
guys.
I mean, I can probably Let me do one
last like a couple things because this
is bothering Okay.
Take forever.
Yeah, that genuinely doesn't seem to
help, now does it?
The
Yes.
Be surprised if that's the thing that's
slow, but
Can't even be that. That's slow.
That actually does make it a little
faster, funny enough.
I didn't [__] up anything in the launch.
I do have this here.
Make sure these checks
not uh
make sure real quick cuz I'm kind of
surprised how the hell that can be
faster.
Oh, wait. Unrolling.
Yeah, it's going to just it's going to
be this, I'm pretty sure. Right.
Yeah, that's what it's going to be.
has to be known compile time. This
probably is not going to do anything,
right?
Yeah, I'm actually I'm totally fine with
that. Like, yay. They of course they
generate a faster kernel.
They get to unroll loops.
I'm actually fine with that.
Okay. So,
do we have any replies? Nope. No replies
in that discord. So, conclusion from
today.
Um,
I guess we can say tiny grads
uh tiny beam generates
better
generates us better code than torches
[__] compile.
Um,
it generates like super specific kernels
to do so.
So you basically have to have the JIT in
there.
Man,
I'm trying to think what this changes
with how I'm doing stuff.
It's kind of funny like tiny would
almost be my ideal thing if it were just
written in freaking
I don't know C or something some
reasonable low-level language
cuz like how how would I do this with RL
even if I wanted to use tiny right Like
I guess you'd have to have
you literally can't even do it, right?
I don't even know if you can jet. You'd
have to like jet just the forward pass,
I guess.
Like their kernel generation's actually
pretty good.
The other thing I like is that they're
so the way that they build up that
instruction queue, whatever it is, the
command buffer like that cutting out
overhead is really good. Though
actually, you know, I didn't see that
when I saw when I opened up the profile.
There's still a huge amount of time
between um between launches.
like kind of good but kind of not.
I guess it might just be too early as
well. Like
once we have the Cvec back end in a good
spot,
could I see this winning on Perf ever?
I mean, realistically, I could, but the
thing is, it's the reason that I could
foresee this thing winning on Perf is so
stupid.
It's just that PyTorch doesn't have um
doesn't have like kernel search in their
C++ API.
Yeah, I know. They like to golf their
[__] more than they should. Liberty
It's still better than Torch, though.
Like the uh the code. I mean, go read
Torch's code. It's ass.
Go try to literally just go think of an
operation in Torch and go try to find
the source code. You won't be able to.
Like if you want to have a fun time, go
figure out how they do their map moles.
Interesting.
I mean, unfortunately, the conclusion
from this is everything is [__] and
there are no good solutions, right?
Like that's literally the conclusion
from this
Autotuner caches.
Is this a thing?
Yeah, this is not true.
Yeah, there's nothing similar to that
sadly.
Pip install puffer does not work.
Uh, what errors are you getting, man?
I'm going to check this and then I'm
going to bed,
I think. But like I guys, I really don't
have an answer to this. Um, it's kind of
an embarrassment that despite
the ludicrous number of billions of
dollars poured into ML as a whole, um,
our tensor library still suck.
Um,
is the closest,
I think. Yeah. What's wrong?
Yo. Um, Piper,
what's uh I don't see issue here. This
installs.
You have to paste an error. Yeah, that
guy long stream day.
I don't think that there's a good
solution to this.
Um, Tiny has some good stuff
for sure. They're also missing things
that you would want
and
the jit just pisses me off, man.
Having to just jit everything.
Tell us what would be the ideal for
tensor libraries.
Well,
I mean, first of all, I'd want an
interface that's not [__] Python.
I'd prefer C. Lightly C++ would be
honestly, [__] that. Nah, just C. If it
were Zigg or something, that would be
fine. Just [__] C++.
Um, there are a few other languages it
could be that would be fine, frankly.
Yeah, but then you're using TensorFlow,
dude.
Isn't that like project basically
abandoned as well because Google's doing
jacks now?
Um,
so you'd want a low-level interface
that removes all the Python launch
overhead without having to do any form
of JIT.
You'd want it to do either some sort of
You'd want it to do something like what
Tiny does. Actually, basically do what
Tiny does, but do it in freaking C
so you don't have this slow ass jet.
I think the thing is you still do have
to trace, right? Even if you are in C, I
think you still have to trace anyways
because you need to uh you need to
buffer all the kernel executions.
Uninvasive and ultra fast jet.
What I really want is to not need a jet,
dude.
Tapes aren't known in advance.
We could just make the damn shapes known
in advance.
didn't get error. Some stuff didn't
work.
Not do UV pip. Well, it's gotten a lot
of changes,
but like let me see
this work.
Yeah, this is puffer 3 training breakout
here. 3.6.
Yeah, 3.5 mill steps a second.
you know the shapes you can probably
compile.
Yeah. The thing is you can guarantee
that the shapes will be static for a
single run but you don't want to have to
recompile per shape.
Yeah. So that guy here's the thing about
torch compile with max autotune. It's
[__] dog [__]
It produces slower code every [__]
time when you have small networks.
Uh that is a weird result.
It should be above 458
possibly. This is a torch version diff.
So that does run.
I would imagine torch version diff on
this.
Yeah, cuz that doesn't work as well as
it was when I shipped this.
I hate Python so much.
Well, the like there's no point in even
looking at torch compile with max
autotune because it produces slower code
than eager mode.
Slower code than eager mode.
Dude,
I think Tiny Grad's Jit is the best of
them so far.
Reduce overhead. No, it's not. I've
profiled it repeatedly. It still
produces slower code.
I hate the idea of having to do puffer
in C++ and cudigraphs.
Okay, cool that guy. I'm not doing any
of those. It's still ass.
I get results out of torch compile.
Sometimes on larger networks, it
constantly screws up on small nets.
It's very inconsistent at the least.
Well, this is the thing. I'm not sure,
right? Because like I want So, not being
in Python eliminates Python overhead,
but like Tiny actually has eliminated a
lot of the uh the Python overhead,
at least from the calls into their nets.
I'm still trying to think.
I hate that it has to be a Jit to do
that,
but having to be like low-level and
still traced is also like that's even
worse.
I guess the benefit would be at least
that the JIT would be faster.
The jet would defin definitely be
faster.
Cudigraph launch overhead. Hudigraph
launch overhead is a decent chunk of it.
That guy,
we have a [__] ton of CPU time actually.
Can I run this?
I wonder if this works at the moment.
Tiny was also able to produce um like a
30% faster kernel than my handwritten
kernel.
though like admittedly they're basically
doing it by generating a they're doing
it by generating like a singlepurpose
kernel with everything unrolled etc etc
and we're testing this against my
generic kernel that works for
everything. So my generic kernel is like
uh twice as fast or whatever as
PyTorch's kernel
and then theirs is like plus 30% on
mine.
Yeah. So, here you see
we've got a big chunk of CUDA launch
kernel,
dynamic kernels.
Well, I'd like tunable kernels at the
least, right? Like maybe you tune the
block sizes, but I'd like to not have to
have literally codegened human
unreadable kernels.
I don't like the idea of I don't like
the idea of taking the you know
unreadable machine code up another
level, right? I don't like the idea of
oh kernel code shouldn't be readable.
That's [__]
You're basically taking like the machine
code and bringing it up a level of
abstraction and saying, "Oh, people
should never have to read that." Which I
hate that.
So yeah, that guy, you can see this
right here.
You can ignore some of these other
things like a lot of this this memcopy
overhead is some of this is going to go
down. There's going to be synchronize
overhead's going to go down. But this
launch overhead, man,
there's nothing I can do about this, I
think, other than fuse more kernels or
do um graphs.
Uh, if this affects LLMs, you are hard
trolling.
I have so much less margin for error
when the networks are this small.
Like my forward passes are 200
microsconds.
Launch time is proportional to the
kernel size
that
Well, not for matt moles.
Well, for matt moles though, it's you
have more arithmetic intensity, so it's
less.
I guess your element wise ops still do,
but then the thing is your element wise
op should be less of your compute
because your mat moles are so much
bigger and they scale quadratic.
Like, so yeah, I still have way less of
a margin of error.
More fuses won't help.
Launch time. Wait, more fuses won't
help. More fuses absolutely do help.
What are you talking about, dude?
What do you mean proportional to the
kernel size? The input size.
I've timed it and the fusing kernels
absolutely does help
us help small model. Yes, that is true.
Well, I will write something up on Tiny
early next week. Um, we got the Ilia
podcast to look at. We've got the VEC
back end to get stable. Vec is going to
get us a couple mill steps per second. I
think we should get to 5 mil just with
good Vec. Um,
and then we need to find another 2x
overhead in here.
Trying out 4.0. I don't know why his
comments don't show up. Probably because
he tried to post a trace and YouTube
filtered it as spam. It's nothing I've
done. It's YouTube defaults. I can't
change them.
Please help him in the Discord if you
can. It's 10 though. I got to get sleep.
Um I'm going to be lifting weights
pretty much all day tomorrow. That's my
uh rest plus exercise day. And I will be
back streaming on Monday.
So, and I have I have to think through
this as well. So,
for everyone who's tuned in, thank you
very much.
All my stuff's free and open source at
puffer.ai.
If you're interested, I try to make RL
fast and less painful.
Um, I also do core research and the
like. You want to help me for free? Feed
this puffer a star. He likes stars. It
actually helps me a ton. stars go up
and can join Discord to get involved
with dev. You can follow me on X for
more RL content including my educational
stuff. Thank you and have a nice
weekend.